---
title: 'On-premises vs. Cloud-based Services and Infrastructure'
date: 2021-02-18 
permalink: /posts/2021/02/On-premises-vs-Cloud-based-Services-and-Infrastructure
tags:
  - Infrastructure
  - Cloud  
---  

## On-premises vs. Cloud-based Services and Infrastructure  

- [Cloud Storage vs. On-Premises Storage](Cloud-Storage-vs.-On-Premises-Storage)
  - [Advantages Of Cloud Storage](Advantages-of-Cloud-Storage) 
  - [Disadvantages Of Cloud Storage](Disdvantages-of-Cloud-Storage) 
  - [Advantages Of On-Premises Storage](Advantages-of-On-Premises-Storage) 
  - [Disadvantages Of On-Premises Storage](Disdvantages-of-On-Premises-Storage)  
- [Cloud Software vs. On-Premises Software](Cloud-Software-vs.-On-Premises-Software) 
  - [Advantages Of Cloud Software](Advantages-of-Cloud-Software) 
  - [Disadvantages Of Cloud Software](Disdvantages-of-Cloud-Software) 
  - [Advantages Of On-Premises Software](Advantages-of-On-Premises-Software) 
  - [Disadvantages Of On-Premises Software](Disdvantages-of-On-Premises-Software)  

Trade-offs between **On-premises** vs. **Cloud System** to narrow down that focus on the differences between two core elements of solutions: 

### Storage and Software 

Both **storage** and **software** are vital to a company's ability to function day-to-day. As such, there are several **cloud** and **on-premises** offerings for storage and software applications. 

### Cloud Storage vs. On-Premises Storage  
### Advantages Of Cloud Storage  
- Reduce IT staff's reponsibilities 
- Eliminate capital expenses 
- Adjust to your budget 
- Adjust to your company's needs 
- Perform regular data backups 

### Disadvantages Of Cloud Storage   
- Internet determines user experience 
- Costs can balloon with little warning 
- Access is based on connection  
- Litigation - search warrant 
- 
### Advantages Of On-Premises Storage    
### Disadvantages Of On-Premises Storage    
### Cloud Software vs. On-Premises Software  
### Advantages Of Cloud Software    
### Disadvantages Of Cloud Software    
### Advantages Of On-Premises Software 
### Disadvantages Of On-Premises Software 





